#summary This page contains some helpful pointers on developing NautilusSvn
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =
!NautilusSvn is pretty much like any other typical Python program, except it's a Nautilus extension. This has been known in the past to cause some problems, for example with threading.

= Finding your way around the wiki =
There are a couple of pages in the wiki relevant for developers:

  * [http://code.google.com/p/nautilussvn/wiki/CodingStyle CodingStyle] serves as an introduction to the style we use for our code (also see [http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/ PEP 8]).
  * [http://code.google.com/p/nautilussvn/wiki/Future Future] is used for discussion and decisions related mostly to the architecture of NautilusSvn. Also see pages labeled [http://code.google.com/p/nautilussvn/w/list?q=label:Phase-Design Phase-Design].
  * [http://code.google.com/p/nautilussvn/wiki/Packaging Packaging] describes how NautilusSvn should be packages for a number of distros.
  * [http://code.google.com/p/nautilussvn/wiki/Architecture Architecture] for a more detailed explination of !NautilusSvn's internals. Also see pages labeled [http://code.google.com/p/nautilussvn/w/list?q=label:Phase-Implementation Phase-Implementation].

= Tips =
When modifying !NautilusSvn you'll have to restart Nautilus quite often. Before Nautilus 2.24.1 one was able to run two Nautilus instances next to each other by changing the TMPDIR. It seems that starting with 2.24.1 you have to quit nautilus (nautilus -q) for this to work. 

You can start Nautilus using this alias by:
{{{
$ nautilus --no-desktop <directory to start in>
}}}

= Patches =

Patches can either be attached to a [http://code.google.com/p/nautilussvn/issues/list relevant issue] or submitted to [http://groups.google.com/group/nautilussvn the mailing list].