#summary Describes the infrastructure that supports development
#labels Phase-Support

= Requirements =

  * Landing Page
  * Issue Tracking
  * Code Review
  * Wiki
    * Required: per-page permissions
    * Required: support for hierarchical relations (Page has Children)
    * Bonus: ability to edit individual sections, not the entire page
    * Bonus: support for comments on the same page
  * File Hosting
  * Translations
  * Project Activity
  * Mailing Lists
  * Developer Blog
  * Repository Hosting

= Possible solutions =

== Adam's Preferences ==

  * rabbitvcs.org points to a homepage we've put together with links to disparate tools
  * We modify our current wordpress blog to be usable as a homepage

  * Landing Page - Our own HTML
  * Issue Tracking - Mantis or Google Code
  * Code Review - Review Board or something simple we could develop ourselves, or continue to use Google Code
  * Wiki - !DokuWiki (it's what I know), !MediaWiki would probably be ok too
  * File Hosting - Our own HTML
  * Translations - Continue to use Launchpad, Poedit
  * Project Activity - Not sure about this one, maybe roll our own feed
  * Mailing Lists - Continue using what we're using
  * Developer Blog - Integrate our current !WordPress blog into the site, or base the site on !WordPress
  * Repository Hosting - Our own SVN server or keep it on Google Code (with new project for RabbitVCS)
  
== Bruce's Preferences ==

  * Landing Page - Anything, preferably something with a nice design
  * Issue Tracking - Trac or Google Code
  * Code Review - Review Board or Google Code
  * Wiki - Trac (with an option to migrate later)
  * File Hosting - Google Code + Launchpad (PPA)
  * Translations - Launchpad
  * Project Activity - Trac or Google Code
  * Mailing Lists - Google Groups
  * Developer Blog - Current !WordPress instance with a new theme
  * Repository Hosting - Preferably a DVCS (Google Code, Launchpad, !GitHub, Bitbucket.org) 

== Jason's Preferences ==

  * Landing page - Clean but a good "hub". Need to be able to change layout after an initial period if we realise we've misjudged what we need.
  * Wiki - I've been using !DokuWiki at work and home for a while, and it's great. Tried !MediaWiki at work, too complicated.
  * Code download - I think that we should try to have at least the downloads in a globally accessible location. We should aim for this for the source as well, but it's not as easy as that.
  * Repository Hosting - should we try to keep it as SVN? :P
  * Mailing lists - as they are, but we need a new rabbitvcs (non dev) group.

= Chosen solution =

  * Landing Page - !WordPress with custom theme
  * Issue Tracking - 
  * Code Review - 
  * Wiki - 
  * File Hosting - Launchpad (PPA) and ...
  * Translations - Launchpad
  * Project Activity - 
  * Mailing Lists - Google Groups
  * Developer Blog - !WordPress
  * Repository Hosting - 

== Hosting Services Ratings ==

|| *Option*             || *Google Code* || *Launchpad* || *!SourceForge* ||
|| _Landing Page_       || A:2 B:1-5 || A:3 B:1-5 || A:1-5 B:1-5 ||
|| _Issue Tracking_     || A:3 B:1-5 || A:3 B:1-5 || A:1-5 B:1-5 ||
|| _Code Review_        || A:4 B:1-5 || A:Notsure B:1-5 || A:1-5 B:1-5 ||
|| _Wiki_               || A:2 B:1-5 || A:notsure B:1-5 || A:1-5 B:1-5 ||
|| _File Hosting_       || A:3 B:1-5 || A:notsure B:1-5 || A:4 B:1-5 ||
|| _Translations_       || A:1 B:1-5 || A:4 B:1-5 || A:1-5 B:1-5 ||
|| _Project Activity_   || A:5 B:1-5 || A:0 B:1-5 || A:1-5 B:1-5 ||
|| _Mailing Lists_      || A:0 B:1-5 || A:notsure B:1-5 || A:1-5 B:1-5 ||
|| _Developer Blog_     || A:0 B:1-5 || A:0 B:1-5 || A:1-5 B:1-5 ||
|| _Repository Hosting_ || A:5 B:1-5 || A:2 B:1-5 || A:1-5 B:1-5 ||

= Migration =

== WordPress ==

  * New install on Bruce's server
  * Take notice of all current URLs (write them down)
  * Close old blog (RabbitVCS logo + notice that we're migrating)
  * Database backup
  * Import database in new install
  * Change permalink structure, i.e. /blog/ etc.
  * Create static 301 redirects on Adam's server for all old URLs