#summary Documentation on the new user interface being developed for v0.12.
#labels Phase-Design,Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

I'm constructing a new user interface for NautilusSvn based on pyGTK and glade files.  My plan is to have a window or dialog for every piece of functionality that TortoiseSVN has.  I'm also attempting to create the UI elements in a standard way which will be documented here.

= Windows =
  * Add
  * Checkout
  * Commit
  * Branch
  * Log
  * Properties
  * Notification (shows callback messages from the vcs)
  * Import
  * Switch
  * Export
  * Cleanup
  * Update To Revision
  * Relocate
  * Merge Wizard (3 Steps)
    * Merge Type (Step 1) 
      # Merge a range of revisions (Step 2a)
      # Reintegrate a branch (Step 2b)
      # Merge two different trees (Step 2c)
   * Merge Options (Step 3)
   * Lock / Unlock
   * Rename

= Dialogs =
  * Previous Messages
  * SSL Certificate
  * HTTP/HTTPS Authorization
  * Property


= Interface Standards =
I'd like to follow the [http://library.gnome.org/devel/hig-book/stable/ Gnome HIG] as much as possible.

=== Windows ===
Each window will be sized differently, but each major item (in the main vbox or hbox) should have a 5px border width.

=== Buttons ===
Use stock buttons where possible.  Most windows/dialogs will have OK and Cancel buttons on the bottom right like so:

  Cancel | OK

If/When we implement Help buttons, they will go on the bottom left of the window.  For wizards like the merge wizard, we will have Forward, Back, and Cancel buttons for each step.  The Back button should be disabled on the first step, and the Forward button should be replaced by a Finish button on the last step.  They should appear on the bottom right like so:

  Cancel | Back | Forward

Regarding spacing, the bottom of each window should have a horizontal button box with 5px border width and 5px spacing.  Each button will have 0px border width and 0px spacing.  Layout style should be "End".

=== Frames ===
Groups of widgets with a similar purpose or functionality should generally be enclosed by frame with an ETCHED_IN shadow.  There should be a 5px TOTAL border width inside the frame.  However, if you have a vertical box inside the frame, then the vertical box should have a 3px border width, and each item inside the vertical box should have a 2px border width; this totals to 5px.