#summary Installation instructions for NautilusSvn v0.12
#labels Phase-Deploy

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Dependencies =

Here is a basic set of dependencies that you will need to install before you can install NautilusSvn.  The actual package names are different for each distribution.  

|| *Program* || *Description* ||
|| [http://svn.gnome.org/viewvc/nautilus-python/ nautilus-python] || Nautilus extension python bindings ||
|| [http://www.voidspace.org.uk/python/configobj.html configobj] || Python configuration module ||
|| [http://www.pygtk.org/ pygtk] || GTK+ python bindings ||
|| [http://pysvn.tigris.org/ pysvn] || Subversion python bindings ||
|| [http://subversion.tigris.org/ subversion] || Subversion, duh! ||
|| [http://meld.sourceforge.net/ meld] || A GTK+ diff tool ||

= Distro-specific instructions =

== Ubuntu 8.10 ==

1. Install the following packages through your package manager.
{{{
sudo apt-get install python-nautilus python-configobj python-gtk2 python-glade2 python-svn subversion meld
}}}

2. [http://code.google.com/p/nautilussvn/wiki/ManualInstallation Install the Extension]

== Fedora 10 ==

1. Install Packages:
{{{
yum install nautilus-python pysvn python-configobj subversion meld
}}}

3. [http://code.google.com/p/nautilussvn/wiki/ManualInstallation Install the Extension]

== Arch Linux ==

All of the packages required to run nautilussvn can be found in Arch Linux User-community Repository (AUR). You can download and build them from there, or use yaourt to simplify the process.

1. Install packages using yaourt:

{{{
yaourt -S python-nautilus python-configobj pygtk pysvn subversion meld
}}}

2. [http://code.google.com/p/nautilussvn/wiki/ManualInstallation Install the Extension]

== OpenSUSE 11.1 ==

1. In Yast -> Software Repositories.  Add the GNOME:STABLE and GNOME:Community repositories.

2. Install packages:
{{{
zypper install python-nautilus python-gtk python-gtk-devel python-pysvn subversion meld
}}}

3. Get python-configobj at http://www.voidspace.org.uk/python/configobj.html#files
    * Copy configobj.py to /usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages/

4. Edit the file /usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages/pysvn/__init__.py
    There is a place where it says:
{{{
elif maj_min == (2,5):
    ....  
}}}      
    Add another elif block, like this...
{{{     
elif maj_min == (2,6):
    import _pysvn_2_6
    _pysvn = _pysvn_2_6
}}}

5. [http://code.google.com/p/nautilussvn/wiki/ManualInstallation Install the Extension]

== CentOS 5.2 ==

Note: Even with no dbus requirement, still doesn't work well.  The nautilus-python (0.5.0) doesn't work very well.

1. Add the RPMForge Repositories.  Instructions are at http://wiki.centos.org/AdditionalResources/Repositories/RPMForge

2. Install Packages:
{{{
yum install pygtk2 subversion subversion-devel gcc gcc-c++ neon-devel python-devel pygtk2-devel eel2 eel2-devel python-configobj nautilus-devel meld
}}}

3. Download nautilus-python bindings at http://ftp.acc.umu.se/pub/GNOME/sources/nautilus-python
 * Make sure you get v0.5.0, NOT v0.5.1
 * Build/install with: su -c './configure ; make ; make install'

5. Download and build the pysvn extension source kit.  You'll need one built to work for subversion 1.4.
 * http://pysvn.tigris.org/project_downloads.html
 * Uncompress the pysvn tar.gz file then run the following commands:
{{{
cd Source
python setup.py backport
python setup.py configure
make
mkdir /usr/lib/python2.4/site-packages/pysvn
cp pysvn/__init__.py /usr/lib/python2.4/site-packages/pysvn
cp pysvn/_pysvn_2_4.so /usr/lib/python2.4/site-packages/pysvn
}}}

6. [http://code.google.com/p/nautilussvn/wiki/ManualInstallation Install the Extension]